LICENSE INFORMATION

The Programs listed below are licensed under the following License Information terms and conditions in addition to the Program license terms previously agreed to by Client and IBM. If Client does not have previously agreed to license terms in effect for the Program, the International Program License Agreement (Z125-3301-14) applies.

Program Name (Program Number):
IBM Cloud Pak for Applications V3.0 Update 1 (5737-L09)

The following standard terms apply to Licensee's use of the Program.

Limited use right

As described in the International Program License Agreement ("IPLA") and this License Information, IBM grants Licensee a limited right to use the Program. This right is limited to the level of Authorized Use, such as a Processor Value Unit ("PVU"), a Resource Value Unit ("RVU"), a Value Unit ("VU"), or other specified level of use, paid for by Licensee as evidenced in the Proof of Entitlement. Licensee's use may also be limited to a specified machine, or only as a Supporting Program, or subject to other restrictions. As Licensee has not paid for all of the economic value of the Program, no other use is permitted without the payment of additional fees. In addition, Licensee is not authorized to use the Program to provide commercial IT services to any third party, to provide commercial hosting or timesharing, or to sublicense, rent, or lease the Program unless expressly provided for in the applicable agreements under which Licensee obtains authorizations to use the Program. Additional rights may be available to Licensee subject to the payment of additional fees or under different or supplementary terms. IBM reserves the right to determine whether to make such additional rights available to Licensee.

Specifications

Program's specifications can be found in the collective Description and Technical Information sections of the Program's Announcement Letters.

Prohibited Uses

Licensee may not use or authorize others to use the Program if failure of the Program could lead to death, bodily injury, or property or environmental damage.

Bundled Programs

Licensee is authorized to install and use the Bundled Programs identified below. A Bundled Program may be accompanied by license terms, and those terms, if any, apply to Licensee's use of that Bundled Program. In the event of conflict, the terms in this License Information document supersede the Bundled Program's terms. The Principal Program and any Bundled Programs are all part of the Program, as a whole. Therefore, Licensee must obtain sufficient entitlements to the Program, as a whole, to cover Licensee's installation and use of all of the Bundled Programs, unless separate entitlements are provided within this License Information document. For example, if this Program were licensed on a PVU (Processor Value Unit) basis and Licensee were to install the Principal Program or a Bundled Program on a 100 PVU machine (physical or virtual) and another Bundled Program on a second 100 PVU machine, Licensee would be required to obtain 200 PVU entitlements to the Program.

Bundled Programs:
IBM Cloud Private
IBM WebSphere Application Server Liberty Core
IBM WebSphere Application Server Network Deployment
IBM WebSphere Application Server
IBM MobileFirst Platform Foundation


Components Not Used for Establishing Required Entitlements

When determining the number of entitlements required for Licensee's installation or use of the Program, the installation or use of the following Program components are not taken into consideration. In other words, Licensee may install and use the following Program components, under the license terms, but these components are not used to determine the number of entitlements required for the Program.
IBM Cloud Transformation Advisor
Developer Tools
Migration Tools

Separately Licensed Code

The provisions of this paragraph do not apply to the extent they are held to be invalid or unenforceable under the law that governs this license. Each of the components listed below is considered "Separately Licensed Code". IBM Separately Licensed Code is licensed to Licensee under the terms of the applicable third party license agreement(s) set forth in the NON_IBM_LICENSE file(s) that accompanies the Program. Notwithstanding any of the terms in the Agreement, or any other agreement Licensee may have with IBM, the terms of such third party license agreement(s) governs Licensee's use of all Separately Licensed Code unless otherwise noted below.

Future Program updates or fixes may contain additional Separately Licensed Code. Such additional Separately Licensed Code and related licenses are listed in another NON_IBM_LICENSE file that accompanies the Program update or fix. Licensee acknowledges that Licensee has read and agrees to the license agreements contained in the NON_IBM_LICENSE file(s). If Licensee does not agree to the terms of these third party license agreements, Licensee may not use the Separately Licensed Code.

For Programs acquired under the International Program License Agreement ("IPLA") or International Program License Agreement for Non Warranted Program ("ILAN") and Licensee is the original licensee of the Program, if Licensee does not agree with the third party license agreements, Licensee may return the Program in accordance with the terms of, and within the specified time frames stated in, the "Money-back Guarantee" section of the IPLA or ILAN IBM Agreement.

Note: Notwithstanding any of the terms in the third party license agreement, the Agreement, or any other agreement Licensee may have with IBM:
(a) IBM provides this Separately Licensed Code to Licensee WITHOUT WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND;
(b) IBM DISCLAIMS ANY AND ALL EXPRESS AND IMPLIED WARRANTIES AND CONDITIONS INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE WARRANTY OF TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OR INTERFERENCE AND THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES AND CONDITIONS OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, WITH RESPECT TO THE SEPARATELY LICENSED CODE;
(c) IBM is not liable to Licensee, and will not defend, indemnify, or hold Licensee harmless for any claims arising from or related to the Separately Licensed Code; and
(d) IBM is not liable for any direct, indirect, incidental, special, exemplary, punitive or consequential damages including, but not limited to, lost data, lost savings, and lost profits, with respect to the Separately Licensed Code.

Notwithstanding these exclusions, in Germany and Austria, IBM's warranty and liability for the Separately Licensed Code is governed only by the respective terms applicable for Germany and Austria in IBM license agreements.

Note: IBM may provide limited support for some Separately Licensed Code. If such support is available, the details and any additional terms related to such support will be set forth in the License Information document.

The following are Separately Licensed Code:
/ext/jinja.el [jinja2]
/xz-5.2.3-0/bin/*
ac
aclocal.m4
aclocal.m4 - gpl v2 with autoconf special exception
aclocal.m4[openldap]
adduser
alembic
alocal.m4
alpine
amsfonts
anaconda-client 1.6.0
android robot (graphic)
android_device.png
android.png
ansible
ansible 2.0.0.2
ansible 2.2.1
ansible 2.3.1
ansible 2.7.8
ansible 2.8.3
ansible-2.4.1.0-1.el7
apache2-utils
apk-tools 2.7.10
apk-tools 2.7.4
apt
apt 1.2.24
apt-transport-https
apt-utils
ar-lib
arules 1.5-2
arulesviz 1.2-1
astroid 1.4.9
astroid 2.0.4
astropy 1.3.3
aufs-tools 1:3.2+20130722-1.1ubuntu1
authconfig -- gplv2+
autoconf
autogen-libopts -- lgplv3+
autotools files [mpfr]
ax_append_flag.m4
ax_pthread.m4
base-files
base-passwd
bash
batik 1.7 (tango desktop and pasodoble)
bazel
bc
bin/sh
binutils
binutils 2.26
bison
bison -- gplv3+
bsdutils
bson-2.12.3-sources/org/bson/util/annotations/guardedby.java
bson-2.12.3-sources/org/bson/util/annotations/immutable.java
bson-2.12.3-sources/org/bson/util/annotations/notthreadsafe.java
bson-2.12.3-sources/org/bson/util/annotations/threadsafe.java
build version go1.8 html
build-aux/* [libidn]
build-installer.py [python]
buildscript [python]
busybox-initramfs
bzip2
c-ares -- mit
c-ctype.h
c50 0.1.0-24
ca-certificates
ca-certificates-java
cairo 1.14.12
callgrind_p.h
caniuse-db
caniuse-lite
car 2.1_4
caret 6.0-73
caret 6.0-77
casuarius 1.1
catboost 0.3.1
catools 1.17.1
centos (matching centos main) 7
cfdisk
cgroupfs-mount 1.2
ch.qos.logback:logback-classic:1.2.3 epl 1.0 + lgpl 2.1
chardet 2.3.0
chardet 3.0.4
chardet 3.0.4 -- lgpl-2.1
checker-qual 2.0.0
chinese text
chrt.1 manpage
cisco nx-os software
class 7.3-14
clean.plugin [microdnf]
cluster 2.0.6
codetools 0.2-15
collectd
compat-libstdc++-33 -- gplv2+ with exceptions
compile
concurrent
config.guess
config.guess [python]
config.sub
config.sub (autoconf exception) [jq]
configure
console-setup
console-setup-mini
containerd
contributing.md
core library components of centos 7.6
coreutils
cpio
cron
crudini
curl
cyclops 1.2.2
cython 0.25.2
cytune.8
da.po
dash
db 5.3.28
dbi 0.5-1
dbus 1.10.10
dbus 1.13.2
debconf
debconf-i18n
debian
debian [ansible]
debian-archive-keyring
debian-based
debianutils
dendextend 1.5.2
deoptimr 1.0-8
depcomp
devtools 1.12.0
dh-python
diffutils
digest 0.6.10
diptest 0.75-7
dist-keras 0.2.1
dmsetup
dnf-cmd.c [libdnf]
dnf-cmd.cpp
docker-engine-selinux
docker.io
docs
docs (json-glib)
docutils 0.13.1
docutils 0.14 -- gpl-3.0
docutils-common
doparallel 1.0.10
dpkg
dpkg-dev
dracut
dracut-core
dt 0.2
e2fslibs
e2fsprogs
effects 4.0-0
eigen
eject
elfutils-default-yama-scope 0.172
elvis-debian code
epel-release 7 - release 1
epel-release 7 - release 6
ethtool
example-start calendar calendar.c
examples
expat -- mit
expat/doc/xmlwf (gnu free documentation license
fakeroot
famfamfam silk icons
famfamfam.com silk icons
fastestmirror-asyncore.py
fdisk
file
findutils
firejail 0.9.44.10
flexmix 2.3-14
font awesome
font awesome 4.7.0
font awesome 4.7.0 [ansible]
font license
font-awesome
font-awesome 4.7.0
fontconfig
fontconfig-config
fonts-dejavu-core
forecast 7.3
formula 1.2-1
fortois
fpc 2.1-10
freetype 2.9.1
fribidi 1.0.5
g++
galera-3
garden-runc
gawk
gcc-4.8-base
gcc-4.9-base
gcc-5-base
gcc-6-base
gclus 1.3.1
gdata 2.18.0
gdbm 1.12
gdk-pixbuf
gdk-pixbuf 2.36.12
gem-ghec-v1.txt
gen-unicode-tables
gencat.c [glibc]
gensim 3.4.0
geos 3.4.2
gettext.m4
ggplot2 2.2.0
ggplot2 2.2.1
gir1.2-glib-2.0
giscanner (subset)
git
git-man
git2cl
git2r 0.16.0
glib 2.50.2
glib 2.56.2
glib.in.h
glib2 -- lgplv2+
glibc
glibc -- lgplv2+ and lgplv2+ with exceptions and gplv2+
glpk 4.52.1
glpk 4.55
glusterfs
glusterfs 3.10.4
gmp 6.1.0
gmp 6.1.2
gmpy2 2.0.8
gnu bison
gnu emacs
gnu libtool
gnu libtools [libidn]
gnupg
go-metrics.docs
golang
golang-1.6
golang-1.6-doc
golang-1.6-go
golang-1.6-src
golang-doc
golang-go
golang-src
gosu
gosu 1.11
gpgv
gplots 3.0.1
graphite-web 0.9.13
graphite2 1.3.12
grep
gridbase 0.4-7
gsl 2.2.1
gst 1.8.0
gst-plugins-base 1.14.0
gst-plugins-base-1.12.2\tests\check\libs\sdp.c
gstreamer 1.14.0
gstreamer 1.8.0
gtools 3.5.0
guarded.java
guardedby.java
guardedbyjava
gzip
h2demo/tmpl.go
h5py 2.7.0
haproxy
haproxy 1.5.18
haproxy 1.5.3
hawkey.repo
hdf5 1.10.4
heketi-master/apps.app.go.
heketi-master/client/api/go-client/backup.go
heketi-master/doc/man/heketi-cli.8
heketi-master/extras/docker/gluster/gluster-setup.sh
helvetica-neue master
highr 0.6
hmisc 4.0-3
hms 0.3
hostname
howto.diveintomark
htmltable 1.9
http-parser -- mit
httpuv 1.3.3
ibm plex typeface
ibm plex typeface [carbon-components]
ibm-design-colors 1.5.1
ibm-design-colors 1.6.0
ibm-design-colors 1.8.1
ibm-design-icons 2.1.0 cc-by-4.0
ibm-design-icons 2.1.4
ibm/plex 1.0.2
ibmdbr 1.49.0
ibmplexserif 1.1.6
ieee-data
ifupdown
igraph 1.0.1
images [jquery-ui]
iminuit 1.1.1
immutable
inetutils-ping
init
init-system-helpers
initramfs-tools
initramfs-tools-bin
initscripts
insserv
install.plugin [microdnf]
iproute
iproute2
iptables
iptables 1.4.21
iputils-ping
ipython 6.2.1 lgpl v2
irlba 2.2.1
irqbalance -- gplv2
isc-dhcp-client
isc-dhcp-common
isc-gem-cat.csv
iso-codes
itmain.sh
japanese text
java-common
javabridge 1.0.14
javax.annotation.concurrent
javax.mail
javazic
jaydebeapi 0.2.0
jbig 2.1
jbig2 2.1
jcip-annotations
jekyll-minifier 0.1.10
jinja.el
jinja2 2.10 (jinja.el)
jinja2 2.7.2
jinja2 2.9.6
jms 1.1
john the ripper password cracker
jpeg 9b
jq
jq-debian
jq-docs
jq-docs [jq]
json-20090211
jszip 3.1.5 mit+gpl-3.0
kbd
keepalived
kernlab 0.9-25
keyboard-configuration
keystone
keyutils
klibc-utils
kmod
knitr 1.15.1
ks 1.10.7
ksh -- epl
lattice 0.20-35
less
libacl1
libaio-devel -- lgplv2+
libaio1
libalgorithm-c3-perl
libapparmor1
libapr1
libaprutil1
libapt-inst1.5
libapt-pkg4.12
libapt-pkg5.0
libarchive-extract-perl
libasan0
libasn1-8-heimdal
libasound2
libasound2-data
libasyncns0
libatk1.0-0
libatk1.0-data
libatm1
libatomic1
libattr1
libaudit-common
libaudit1
libav-tools 6.11.9
libavahi-client3
libavahi-common-data
libavahi-common3
libbasicobjects -- gplv3+
libblkid1
libboost-system1.55.0
libboost-thread1.55.0
libbsd0
libbz2-1.0
libc-bin
libc-dev-bin
libc6
libc6-dev
libcairo2
libcap2
libcap2-bin
libcgi-fast-perl
libcgi-pm-perl
libcgmanager0
libcgroup-devel -- lgplv2+
libclass-c3-perl
libclass-c3-xs-perl
libcloog-isl4
libcollection -- lgplv3+
libcomerr2
libcpan-meta-perl
libcryptsetup4
libcups2
libcurl3
libcurl3-gnutls
libcurl3-nss
libdata-optlist-perl
libdata-section-perl
libdatrie1
libdb5.3
libdbd-mysql-perl
libdbi-perl
libdbus-1-3
libdbus-glib-1-2
libdebconfclient0
libdevmapper1.02.1
libdhash -- lgplv3+
libdns-export162
libdrm-amdgpu1
libdrm-intel1
libdrm-nouveau2
libdrm-radeon1
libdrm2
libedit2
libelf1
libencode-locale-perl
liberror-perl
libestr0
libev4
libevent-2.0-5
libexpat1
libfakeroot
libfcgi-perl
libfdisk1
libffi [python]
libffi.exp
libffi.texi
libffi/m4 [python]
libffi6
libflac8
libfontconfig1
libfreetype6
libfribidi0
libgcc-ng 7.3.0
libgcc-ng 8.2.0
libgcc1
libgcrypt11
libgcrypt20
libgdbm3
libgdk-pixbuf2.0-0
libgdk-pixbuf2.0-common
libgfortran-ng 7.2.0
libgfortran-ng 7.3.0
libgif7
libgirepository-1.0-1
libgl1-mesa-dri
libgl1-mesa-glx
libglapi-mesa
libglib2.0-0
libgmp10
libgnutls-deb0-28
libgnutls-openssl27
libgnutls26
libgnutls30
libgomp1
libgpg-error0
libgraphite2-3
libgssapi-krb5-2
libgssapi3-heimdal
libgtk2.0-0
libgtk2.0-common
libharfbuzz0b
libhcrypto4-heimdal
libheimbase1-heimdal
libheimntlm0-heimdal
libhogweed2
libhogweed4
libhtml-parser-perl
libhtml-tagset-perl
libhtml-template-perl
libhttp-date-perl
libhttp-message-perl
libhx509-5-heimdal
libiconv 1.14
libiconv 1.15 gpl, lgpl
libiconv version 1.15 gpl, lgpl
libicu52
libicu55
libidn11
libini_config -- lgplv3+
libio-html-perl
libipa_hbac -- lgplv3+
libisc-export160
libisl10
libitm1
libjbig0
libjemalloc1
libjpeg-turbo8
libjpeg8
libjs-jquery
libjs-sphinxdoc
libjs-underscore
libjson-c2
libjson0
libk5crypto3
libkeyutils1
libklibc
libkmod2
libkrb5-26-heimdal
libkrb5-3
libkrb5support0
liblcms2-2
libldap-2.4-2
libldb -- lgplv3+
libllvm3.8
liblocale-gettext-perl
liblockfile-bin
liblockfile1
liblog-message-perl
liblog-message-simple-perl
liblwp-mediatypes-perl
liblz4-1
liblzma5
libmagic1
libmariadbclient18
libmnl0
libmodule-build-perl
libmodule-pluggable-perl
libmodule-signature-perl
libmount1
libmpc3
libmpdec2
libmpfr4
libmro-compat-perl
libmysqlclient18
libmysqlclient20
libncurses5
libncursesw5
libnettle4
libnettle6
libnewt0.52
libnfnetlink0
libnfsidmap -- bsd
libnfsidmap2
libnih-dbus1
libnih1
libnspr4
libnss3
libnss3-nssdb
libogg0
libonig2
libp11-kit0
libpackage-constants-perl
libpam-cap
libpam-modules
libpam-modules-bin
libpam-runtime
libpam0g
libpango-1.0-0
libpangocairo-1.0-0
libpangoft2-1.0-0
libparams-util-perl
libpath_utils -- lgplv3+
libpciaccess0
libpcre3
libpcsclite1
libperl4-corelibs-perl
libperl5.22
libpixman-1-0
libplymouth2
libpng12-0
libpod-latex-perl
libpod-readme-perl
libpopt0
libprocps3
libprocps4
libpulse0
libpython-stdlib
libpython2.7
libpython2.7-minimal
libpython2.7-stdlib
libpython3-stdlib
libpython3.4-minimal
libpython3.4-stdlib
libquadmath0

librados2
libreadline5
libreadline6
libref_array -- lgplv3+
libregexp-common-perl
libroken18-heimdal
librtas1
librtasevent1
librtmp0
librtmp1
libsasl2-2
libsasl2-modules
libsasl2-modules-db
libseccomp2
libselinux1
libsemanage-common
libsemanage1
libsepol1
libserf-1-1
libsigsegv2
libslang2
libsmartcols1
libsmbclient -- gplv3+ and lgplv3+
libsndfile1
libsodium/m4 [pynacl]
libsoftware-license-perl
libsqlite3-0
libss2
libssh2-1
libssl1.0.0
libsss_autofs -- lgplv3+
libsss_certmap -- lgplv3+
libsss_idmap -- lgplv3+
libsss_nss_idmap -- lgplv3+
libsss_sudo -- lgplv3+
libstdc++-5-dev
libstdc++6
libstdcxx-ng 7.3.0
libstdcxx-ng 8.2.0
libsub-exporter-perl
libsub-install-perl
libsvn1
libsystemd0
libtalloc -- lgplv3+
libtasn1-6
libtdb -- lgplv3+
libterm-readkey-perl
libterm-ui-perl
libtevent -- lgplv3+
libtext-charwidth-perl
libtext-iconv-perl
libtext-soundex-perl
libtext-template-perl
libtext-wrapi18n-perl
libthai-data
libthai0
libtiff5
libtimedate-perl
libtinfo5
libtirpc1
libtomcrypt0
libtool (gnu libtool) 2.4.6
libtool 2.4.6
libtool-ldflags
libtool.m4 [jq]
libtool.m4 [pynacl]
libtsan0
libudev1
liburi-perl
libusb-0.1-4
libustr-1.0-1
libuuid1
libvirt_lxc.py
libvorbis0a
libvorbisenc2
libwbclient -- gplv3+ and lgplv3+
libwind0-heimdal
libwrap0
libx11-6
libx11-data
libx11-xcb1
libxau6
libxcb-dri2-0
libxcb-dri3-0
libxcb-glx0
libxcb-present0
libxcb-render0
libxcb-shm0
libxcb-sync1
libxcb1
libxcomposite1
libxcursor1
libxdamage1
libxdmcp6
libxext6
libxfixes3
libxi6
libxinerama1
libxml2
libxmlsec1
libxmlsec1-openssl
libxrandr2
libxrender1
libxshmfence1
libxslt1.1
libxtables11
libxtst6
libxxf86vm1
libyaml-0-2
limits.in.h
linux-libc-dev
lme4 1.1-13
lmtest 0.9-35
locales
locales 2.19 (debian)
lockfile-progs
login
logrotate
lsb-base
lsb-release
lsof
ltmain
ltmain.sh
ltmain.sh [jq]
ltmain.sh [pynacl]
lvm2-devel
lxml 4.2.5
lzo 2.1
m4
mac-fdisk
make
makedev
makefile.gnulib
makefile.in.in
manpages
manpages-dev
map_test.go (chinese)
map_test.go (russian)
map_test.go (vietnamese)
mariadb
mariadb 5.5.53
mariadb-client-10.1
mariadb-client-core-10.1
mariadb-common
mariadb-server
mariadb-server-10.1
mariadb-server-core-10.1
markdown 0.7.7
mass 7.3-45
matchingmarkets 0.3-3
matrix 1.2-7.1
mawk
mercurial
mercurial 4.1.1
mesa-libglapi -- mit
mgcv 1.8-16
microdnf
microsoft jdbc driver v6.4 for sql server
mime 0.5
mime-support
mimicsxalloccolor
minitar
miniui 0.1.1
missing
mke2fs
mocha-docs
models 0.9.3
module-init-tools
mongodb 3.4.1
moopp
mount
mountall
mpc 1.1.0
mpfr 4.0.1
msp decoder
multiarch-support
mysql-client
mysql-client-5.5
mysql-client-core-5.5
mysql-common
mysql-python 1.2.5
nbconvert 4.1.0
ncurses-base
ncurses-bin
ncurses-devel -- mit
nep12
net-tools
netbase
netcat-openbsd
newt -- lgplv2
newt-python -- lgplv2
nfs-common
nfs-utils
nloptr 1.0.4
nnet 7.1-12
nose 1.3.7
nscd -- lgplv2+ and lgplv2+ with exceptions and gplv2+
nss-pam-ldapd -- lgplv2+
nss-softokn-freebl -- mplv2.0
ntp -- (mit and bsd and bsd with advertising) and gplv2
ntpdate
ntpdate -- (mit and bsd and bsd with advertising) and gplv2
numactl -- gplv2
numactl-devel -- lgplv2 and gplv2
numactl-libs -- lgplv2 and gplv2
openjdk
openjdk 8
openjdk-8-jdk
openjdk-8-jdk-headless
openjdk-8-jre
openjdk-8-jre-headless
openldap-clients -- openldap
openldap-servers -- openldap
openshift-mariadb-galera
openssh-client
openssh-server
openssh-server -- bsd
openssh-sftp-server
openssl
openssl-perl -- openssl
openssl-static -- openssl
org.bson.util.annotations
orig
package-cleanup.py
pam-devel -- bsd and gplv2+
pandas 0.20.3
pandoc 1.12.4
pandoc 1.15.0.6
pandoc 1.19.2.1
pango 1.40.3
pango 1.42.4
paramiko 2.1.2
paramiko 2.4.0
parser.c [jq]
partitions 1.9-19
passwd
patch
patchelf 0.9
pbdzmq 0.2-4
pbkrtest 0.4-7
pep381client 1.5
percona-xtrabackup
perf -- gplv2
perl
perl-base
perl-modules
perl-modules-5.22
perl-podlators -- gpl+ or artistic
perl-www-curl -- mplv1.1 or mit
pkg-config-0.29
pkg.m4
pkg.m4 [libidn]
plugins
plural.c [glibc]
plymouth
pmac-fdisk
po directory
po/makefile.in.in [libidn]
po2tbl.sed
popt-static
powerpc-ibm-utils
powerpc-utils
procps
programs
psmisc
pwgen
pyamg 2.2.1
pycadf-common
pycurl 7.43.0.2
pygi-foreign-cairo.c
pygments 2.1.3
pylint 1.6.4
pylint 2.1.1
pylint 2.2.2
pyparsing 2.1.4
pyqt 5.12
pyqt 5.9.2
python
python-alembic
python-amqp
python-anyjson
python-appdirs
python-apt-common
python-babel
python-babel-localedata
python-cachetools
python-cffi-backend
python-chardet
python-cinderclient
python-cliff
python-cmd2
python-concurrent.futures
python-contextlib2
python-crypto
python-cryptography
python-dateutil
python-debtcollector
python-decorator
python-dns
python-docutils
python-dogpile.cache
python-dogpile.core
python-enum34
python-eventlet
python-extras
python-fasteners
python-fixtures
python-formencode
python-funcsigs
python-functools32
python-futurist
python-glanceclient
python-greenlet
python-idna
python-ipaddress
python-iso8601
python-jinja2
python-json-patch
python-json-pointer
python-jsonpatch
python-jsonschema
python-keyring
python-keystone
python-keystoneauth1
python-keystoneclient
python-keystonemiddleware
python-kombu
python-linecache2
python-lxml
python-mako
python-markupsafe
python-memcache
python-migrate
python-mimeparse
python-minimal
python-mock
python-monotonic
python-msgpack
python-netaddr
python-netifaces
python-neutronclient
python-novaclient
python-ntlm 1.1.0
python-oauthlib
python-openssl
python-openstackclient
python-openstacksdk
python-os-client-config
python-oslo.cache
python-oslo.concurrency
python-oslo.config
python-oslo.context
python-oslo.db
python-oslo.i18n
python-oslo.log
python-oslo.messaging
python-oslo.middleware
python-oslo.policy
python-oslo.serialization
python-oslo.service
python-oslo.utils
python-passlib
python-paste
python-pastedeploy
python-pastedeploy-tpl
python-pbr
python-pika
python-pika-pool
python-pkg-resources
python-positional
python-posix-ipc
python-prettytable
python-pyasn1
python-pycadf
python-pyinotify
python-pymysql
python-pyparsing
python-pysaml2
python-repoze.lru
python-requests
python-requestsexceptions
python-retrying
python-roman
python-routes
python-setuptools
python-simplejson
python-six
python-sqlalchemy
python-sqlparse
python-sssdconfig -- gplv3+
python-stevedore
python-tempita
python-testtools
python-traceback2
python-tz
python-unicodecsv
python-unittest2
python-urllib3
python-warlock
python-webob
python-wheel
python-wrapt
python-yaml
python-zope.interface
python2.7
python2.7-minimal
python3
python3-apt
python3-dbus
python3-gi
python3-minimal
python3-pycurl
python3-software-properties
python3.4
python3.4-minimal
pyzmq 16.0.2
qt 5.6.2
qt 5.9.6
qtawesome 0.4.3
qtawesome-fonts
quantlib 1.4
quantreq 5.29
r 3.1.0 gplv3
r 3.2.2 gpl v2
r 3.4.1
randomforest 4.6-12
rattle 5.1.0
rblpapi 0.3.6
rcpp 0.12.8
rcpparmadillo 0.7.500.0.0
rcppeigen 0.3.2.9.0
rcurl 1.95-4.7
rcurl 1.95-4.8
rdoc
react 15.4.2
react-scripts 0.8.5
readline
readline 7.0
readline-common
readme.md
red hat runtimes
red hat enterprise linux v7
red hat openshift container platform 3.11
red hat universal base image v7.0
red hat universal base image v8.0
red hat universal base image v7.6 (maipo)
rename
resolvconf
rgl 0.98.1
rgtk2 2.20.33
rhel universal base image (ubi) 7.6-123
rjava 0.9-8
rjdbc 0.2-5
rmarkdown 1.3
rmarkdown 1.6
rms 5.1-1
rope 0.10.7
rope 0.11.0
rope 0.9.4
rpcbind
rprojroot 1.1
rquantlib 0.4.1
rsqlite 1.1-1
rstudio 1.0.136
rsync
rsyslog
rugarch 1.3-8
runc
russian text
samba-client-libs -- gplv3+ and lgplv3+
samba-common -- gplv3+ and lgplv3+
samba-common-libs -- gplv3+ and lgplv3+
sass maps plus 0.9.2
scanelf 1.2.2
scanelf 1.2.3-r0
sed
sensible-utils
sgml-base
shared-mime-info
shiny 0.14.2
shiny 1.0.2
shiny-server 1.5.3.838
shtool [openldap]
simplegeneric 0.8.1
sip 4.19.8
slam 0.1-40
slang -- gplv2+
socat
software-properties-common
spdx-exceptions
spdx-exceptions (node)
spdx-exceptions 1.0.4
spdx-exceptions 2.1.0
spdx-exceptions 2.2.0
spdx-expression-parse (node) 1.0.4
sphinx 1.5.1
spyder 3.1.2
ssh
sshpass
sshpass 1.06
ssl-cert
sssd -- gplv3+
sssd-ad -- gplv3+
sssd-client -- lgplv3+
sssd-common -- gplv3+
sssd-common-pac -- gplv3+
sssd-ipa -- gplv3+
sssd-krb5 -- gplv3+
sssd-krb5-common -- gplv3+
sssd-ldap -- gplv3+
sssd-proxy -- gplv3+
stackoverflow (https://bit.ly/2edos1b)
stanford-corenlp 3.9.0
startpar
startpar 0.59-3
stringr 1.1.0
stunnel 5.39
stunnel 5.53
sudo
sun
supervisor 3.3.1
swagger sample api 1.0.9-abcd
sysstat -- gplv2+
systemd
systemd-sysv
sysv-rc
sysvinit-tools
sysvinit-utils
tables 3.3.0
tap-driver (gpl v2 with autoconf exception)
tap-driver.sh (gpl autoconf exception)
tar
tcpd
test-driver
test-driver [jq]
test-driver [pynacl]
tests
tests.xsd
texinfo.tex
texinfo.tex [python]
text.go (japanese)
timedate 3012.1
tk.po
tools - site-policies
tseries 0.10-35
tzdata
ubuntu
ubuntu (version 16.04)
ubuntu 14.04
ubuntu 16.04
ubuntu-cloud-keyring
ubuntu-keyring
ubuntu-minimal
ucf
udev
unattended-upgrades
unboundid-ldapsdk
unclib.sh
unidecode 1.0.22
unixodbc 2.3.7
unorm
upstart
upstart_support.patch
ureadahead
util-linux
util-linux 2.23.2
uwsgi 2.0.15 gplv2
valgrind_p.h
vietnamese text
vim-common
vim-tiny
wcslib
wget
wget 1.18
wget 3.2
which 1.2.12
which 1.2.14
which 1.2.9
whiptail
whisker 0.3-2
wikimedia commons [jquery-ui]
withr 1.0.2
wordnik api team [z-schema]
x11-common
xkb-data
xlwt 1.2.0
xml-core
xmlsec1
xmpp4r
xtable 1.8-2
xz 5.2.4
xz-utils
yum-plugin-fastestmirror 1.1.31
yusuke kamiyamane icons
zeromq 4.1.5
zeromq 4.2.5
zeromq.spec.in
zlib1g
zoo 1.7-13

Privacy

Licensee acknowledges and agrees that IBM may use cookie and tracking technologies to collect personal information in gathering product usage statistics and information designed to help improve user experience and/or to tailor interactions with users in accordance with the IBM Online Privacy Policy, available at http://www.ibm.com/privacy/.

Source Components and Sample Materials

The Program may include some components in source code form ("Source Components") and other materials identified as Sample Materials. Licensee may copy and modify Source Components and Sample Materials for internal use only provided such use is within the limits of the license rights under this Agreement, provided however that Licensee may not alter or delete any copyright information or notices contained in the Source Components or Sample Materials. IBM provides the Source Components and Sample Materials without obligation of support and "AS IS", WITH NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING THE WARRANTY OF TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OR NON-INTERFERENCE AND THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES AND CONDITIONS OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

Technology Preview Code

Technology Preview Code (TPC) may be included or distributed with the Program or updates to it but are not part of the Program. TPC is licensed under the same terms as the Program, except as provided below. TPC will be identified as such in the Notices File (or in an updated Notices File accompanying the updates). Some or all of the TPC may not be made generally available by IBM as or in a product. Licensee is permitted to use TPC only for internal use for evaluation purposes and not for use in a production environment. The Notices File may limit this evaluation use to an evaluation period. If so, at the end of such evaluation period Licensee must cease using and uninstall the TPC. IBM provides the TPC without obligation of support and "AS IS," WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE WARRANTY OF TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OR NON-INTERFERENCE AND ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES AND CONDITIONS OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

Licensee may not transfer TPC to another party except as a transfer accompanying the Program. TPC may contain a disabling device that will prevent it from being used after the evaluation period ends. Licensee will not tamper with this disabling device or the TPC. Licensee should take precautions to avoid any loss of data that might result when the TPC can no longer be used.

Licensee assigns to IBM all right, title, and interest (including ownership of copyright) in any data, suggestions, or written materials that 1) are related to the Technology Preview Code and 2) Licensee provides to IBM. Upon IBM's request, Licensee will sign additional documents necessary to assign such rights. In addition to the foregoing, Licensee grants to IBM a non-exclusive, irrevocable, unrestricted, worldwide and paid-up right and license to a) include in any product or service any idea, know-how, concept, technique, invention, discovery or improvement, whether or not patentable, that Licensee provides to IBM related to the Technology Preview Code b) use, manufacture and market any such product or service, and c) allow others to do any of the foregoing.

Licensee agrees to treat the following as "IBM Confidential Information" regardless of whether they contain restrictive markings indicating the confidential nature thereof or have been identified as IBM Confidential Information prior to disclosure: (a) the Technology Preview Code, (b) any information provided to Licensee by IBM with regard to the Technology Preview Code including, but not limited to, related materials such as specifications, plans, trends, strategies, benchmarks, performance characteristics, comparisons and other assessments of the Technology Preview Code, (c) any information related to Licensee's access to the Technology Preview Code including, but not limited to, passwords or other access codes, and (d) all data, feedback, suggestions and/or written materials that Licensee provides to IBM related to the Technology Preview Code. Licensee is authorized to use the IBM Confidential Information for the purpose for which it was disclosed or otherwise for the benefit of IBM. Notwithstanding any other terms of this Agreement, Licensee agrees not to communicate, publish, disseminate or otherwise discuss with or disclose to any third party the IBM Confidential Information (including but not limited to articles, papers or other written materials pertaining to the IBM Confidential Information) prior to IBM making such IBM Confidential Information publicly available without a non-disclosure obligation. Notwithstanding the above, Licensee does not have a confidentiality obligation to Technology Preview Code identified in the Notices File as non-confidential.

Licensee agrees to use the same care and discretion to avoid disclosure of the IBM Confidential Information as Licensee uses with Licensee's own similar information that Licensee does not wish to disclose, but in no event will such degree of care be less than reasonable care. Licensee's obligations with respect to the IBM Confidential Information will continue for a period of two years from Licensee's receipt of the IBM Confidential Information. Licensee agrees not to disclose to IBM any information that is considered confidential or proprietary to Licensee or any third party except under a signed, separate, written confidential agreement.

Notwithstanding the existence of any confidentiality or other agreement Licensee may have with IBM pertaining to confidential information, the preceding paragraphs will govern the treatment of the IBM Confidential Information.

Export and Import Restrictions

This Program may contain cryptography. Transfer to, or use by, users of the Program may be prohibited or subject to export or import laws, regulations or policies, including those of the United States Export Administration Regulations. Licensee assumes all responsibility for complying with all applicable laws, regulations, and policies regarding the export, import, or use of this Program, including but not limited to, U.S. restrictions on exports or reexports. To obtain the export classification of this Program refer to: https://www.ibm.com/products/exporting/.

The following units of measure may apply to Licensee's use of the Program.

Virtual Processor Core

Virtual Processor Core is a unit of measure by which the Program can be licensed. A Server is a physical computer that is comprised of processing units, memory, and input/output capabilities and that executes requested procedures, commands, or applications for one or more users or client devices. Where racks, blade enclosures, or other similar equipment is being employed, each separable physical device (for example, a blade or a rack-mounted device) that has the required components is considered itself a separate Server. A Virtual Server is either a virtual computer created by partitioning the resources available to a physical Server or an unpartitioned physical Server. A Processor Core is a functional unit within a computing device that interprets and executes instructions. A Processor Core consists of at least an instruction control unit and one or more arithmetic or logic unit. A Virtual Processor Core is a Processor Core on a Virtual Server created by partitioning the resources available to a physical Server or an unpartitioned physical Server. Licensee must obtain entitlement for each Virtual Processor Core made available to the Program.

For each physical Server, Licensee must have sufficient entitlements for the lesser of 1) the sum of all available Virtual Processor Cores on all Virtual Servers or 2) all available Processor Cores on the physical Server.

In addition to the above, the following terms apply to Licensee's use of the Program.

Entitlement Conversion Details

These Entitlement Conversion Details outline the entitlement conversion options. Licensee is entitled to the below entitlement conversion options in any deployment combination of Licensee's choosing and may choose to convert entitlements between the listed programs below at any time provided that the sum of Licensee's deployments do not exceed the total amount of Licensee's entitlements obtained for the Program. Licensee is not entitled to use entitlements obtained of the Program for any other purpose. 

Unless otherwise indicated, Licensee may deploy and use any then currently supported version or release of the listed programs. If support for a deployed version or release of a listed program is subsequently no longer being made available, support will not be available through this Program either. While Licensee may choose to continue to use that deployed version or release, Subscription and Support (S&S) for this Program will not actually provide support for the unsupported version or release of the listed program. 

Depending on the agreements between IBM and the Licensee, Licensee may have committed that when obtaining S&S they would do so for all uses and installations of an IBM Program. For the purposes of any such commitment, the individual Bundled Programs are the IBM Programs subject to that S&S commitment and to the extent that Licensee is obligated to acquire S&S for a Bundled Program, Licensee can satisfy that obligation as to the entitlements obtained under this Program by maintaining S&S for this Program as a whole. 

Listed Program Entitlement Conversion Options:

1. IBM WebSphere Application Server Network Deployment
- Entitlement Conversion: 1 VPC /1 VPC 

2. IBM WebSphere Application Server
- Entitlement Conversion: 4 VPCs / 1 VPC

3. IBM WebSphere Application Server Liberty Core
- Entitlement Conversion: 8 VPCs / 1 VPC

4. Red Hat OpenShift with Kabanero Enterprise and Red Hat Runtimes
- Entitlement Conversion: 1 VPCs / 1 VPC

5. IBM Cloud Private
- Entitlement Conversion: 3 VPCs /1 VPC

6. IBM MobileFirst Platform Foundation
- Entitlement Conversion: 2 VPCs / 1 VPC

"Conversion n/m" means that Licensee can convert some number ('n') entitlements of the indicated metric for the listed program for every specified number ('m') entitlements of the specified metric for the Program. The specified conversion does not apply to any entitlements for the Program that are not of the required metric type. For example, if the conversion ratio is 100 entitlements of a listed program for every 500 entitlements obtained of the Program and Licensee acquires 1,500 entitlements of the Program, Licensee may convert those 1,500 entitlements into 300 entitlements of the listed program, allowing the Licensee to use the listed program up to the 300 entitlements.


Runtimes & Frameworks Entitled with Kabanero Enterprise

Entitled Support for the Program includes support for Java, Node.js and Swift open source runtimes and frameworks deployed on the Program for use with Licensee applications.

Support is limited to the version(s) supported by the respective owning community at the time of the request. When Licensee requests support that results in a code change, the appropriate community will be involved by IBM. Where a code change is needed, IBM will assist in the development of the fix and contribute to the owning community under their normal contributor process.
 
The Java runtime supported is the "OpenJDK with Eclipse OpenJ9" runtime which is downloadable from the AdoptOpenJDK Community at adoptopenjdk.net. The versions of this Java runtime supported are those that are declared by the AdoptOpneJDK community to be in current or Long Term Support (LTS). The following platforms are supported for Java: RHEL, SLES and Ubuntu distributions running on x86-64, IBM 64 bit Power Systems™(in Little Endian architecture format for use on IBM POWER 8) or IBM 64 bit z Systems (including IBM LinuxONE™). 

The Node.js runtime supported is that which is downloadable from the Node.js Foundation for Node.js website at nodejs.org. The versions of Node.js supported are those which are declared as in Long Term Support (LTS) by the community. The Express framework supported is that which has been most recently uploaded to the NPM repository at npmjs.com. The Loopback framework supported is that which has been most recently uploaded to the NPM repository at npmjs.com and is declared to be current or in Long Term Support. Application Metrics for Node.js is also supported for Node.js.

The following platforms are supported for Node.js (and associated frameworks listed): RHEL, SLES and Ubuntu distributions running on x86-64, IBM 64 bit Power Systems™(in Little Endian architecture format for use on IBM POWER 8) or IBM 64 bit z Systems (including IBM LinuxONE™). 

Swift runtime support covers any release that can be downloaded from the Swift.org Releases section of the Swift.org website. Support for the Kitura web framework (from v2) along with its associated frameworks is also included. The following platforms are supported for Swift (and associated frameworks listed): Ubuntu 14.04 LTS for x86-64 and Ubuntu 16.04 LTS for x86-64.

Additional content statement

The Program allows Licensee to access and download additional IBM and non-IBM software. Entitlement to additional software is obtained separately from the Program and will have separate terms. Licensee agrees that those terms may be presented only in English.

L/N:  L-CTUR-BF2FY4
D/N:  L-CTUR-BF2FY4
P/N:  L-CTUR-BF2FY4


International Program License Agreement

Part 1 - General Terms

BY DOWNLOADING, INSTALLING, COPYING, ACCESSING, CLICKING ON AN "ACCEPT" BUTTON, OR OTHERWISE USING THE PROGRAM, LICENSEE AGREES TO THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT. IF YOU ARE ACCEPTING THESE TERMS ON BEHALF OF LICENSEE, YOU REPRESENT AND WARRANT THAT YOU HAVE FULL AUTHORITY TO BIND LICENSEE TO THESE TERMS. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO THESE TERMS,

* DO NOT DOWNLOAD, INSTALL, COPY, ACCESS, CLICK ON AN "ACCEPT" BUTTON, OR USE THE PROGRAM; AND

* PROMPTLY RETURN THE UNUSED MEDIA, DOCUMENTATION, AND PROOF OF ENTITLEMENT TO THE PARTY FROM WHOM IT WAS OBTAINED FOR A REFUND OF THE AMOUNT PAID. IF THE PROGRAM WAS DOWNLOADED, DESTROY ALL COPIES OF THE PROGRAM.

1. Definitions

"Authorized Use" - the specified level at which Licensee is authorized to execute or run the Program. That level may be measured by number of users, millions of service units ("MSUs"), Processor Value Units ("PVUs"), or other level of use specified by IBM.

"IBM" - International Business Machines Corporation or one of its subsidiaries.

"License Information" ("LI") - a document that provides information and any additional terms specific to a Program. The Program's LI is available at www.ibm.com/software/sla. The LI can also be found in the Program's directory, by the use of a system command, or as a booklet included with the Program.

"Program" - the following, including the original and all whole or partial copies: 1) machine-readable instructions and data, 2) components, files, and modules, 3) audio-visual content (such as images, text, recordings, or pictures), and 4) related licensed materials (such as keys and documentation).

"Proof of Entitlement" ("PoE") - evidence of Licensee's Authorized Use. The PoE is also evidence of Licensee's eligibility for warranty, future update prices, if any, and potential special or promotional opportunities. If IBM does not provide Licensee with a PoE, then IBM may accept as the PoE the original paid sales receipt or other sales record from the party (either IBM or its reseller) from whom Licensee obtained the Program, provided that it specifies the Program name and Authorized Use obtained.

"Warranty Period" - one year, starting on the date the original Licensee is granted the license.

2. Agreement Structure

This Agreement includes Part 1 - General Terms, Part 2 - Country-unique Terms (if any), the LI, and the PoE and is the complete agreement between Licensee and IBM regarding the use of the Program. It replaces any prior oral or written communications between Licensee and IBM concerning Licensee's use of the Program. The terms of Part 2 may replace or modify those of Part 1. To the extent of any conflict, the LI prevails over both Parts.

3. License Grant

The Program is owned by IBM or an IBM supplier, and is copyrighted and licensed, not sold.

IBM grants Licensee a nonexclusive license to 1) use the Program up to the Authorized Use specified in the PoE, 2) make and install copies to support such Authorized Use, and 3) make a backup copy, all provided that

a. Licensee has lawfully obtained the Program and complies with the terms of this Agreement;

b. the backup copy does not execute unless the backed-up Program cannot execute;

c. Licensee reproduces all copyright notices and other legends of ownership on each copy, or partial copy, of the Program;

d. Licensee ensures that anyone who uses the Program (accessed either locally or remotely) 1) does so only on Licensee's behalf and 2) complies with the terms of this Agreement;

e. Licensee does not 1) use, copy, modify, or distribute the Program except as expressly permitted in this Agreement; 2) reverse assemble, reverse compile, otherwise translate, or reverse engineer the Program, except as expressly permitted by law without the possibility of contractual waiver; 3) use any of the Program's components, files, modules, audio-visual content, or related licensed materials separately from that Program; or 4) sublicense, rent, or lease the Program; and

f. if Licensee obtains this Program as a Supporting Program, Licensee uses this Program only to support the Principal Program and subject to any limitations in the license to the Principal Program, or, if Licensee obtains this Program as a Principal Program, Licensee uses all Supporting Programs only to support this Program, and subject to any limitations in this Agreement. For purposes of this Item "f," a "Supporting Program" is a Program that is part of another IBM Program ("Principal Program") and identified as a Supporting Program in the Principal Program's LI. (To obtain a separate license to a Supporting Program without these restrictions, Licensee should contact the party from whom Licensee obtained the Supporting Program.)

This license applies to each copy of the Program that Licensee makes.

3.1 Trade-ups, Updates, Fixes, and Patches

3.1.1 Trade-ups

If the Program is replaced by a trade-up Program, the replaced Program's license is promptly terminated.

3.1.2 Updates, Fixes, and Patches

When Licensee receives an update, fix, or patch to a Program, Licensee accepts any additional or different terms that are applicable to such update, fix, or patch that are specified in its LI. If no additional or different terms are provided, then the update, fix, or patch is subject solely to this Agreement. If the Program is replaced by an update, Licensee agrees to promptly discontinue use of the replaced Program.

3.2 Fixed Term Licenses

If IBM licenses the Program for a fixed term, Licensee's license is terminated at the end of the fixed term, unless Licensee and IBM agree to renew it.

3.3 Term and Termination

This Agreement is effective until terminated.

IBM may terminate Licensee's license if Licensee fails to comply with the terms of this Agreement.

If the license is terminated for any reason by either party, Licensee agrees to promptly discontinue use of and destroy all of Licensee's copies of the Program. Any terms of this Agreement that by their nature extend beyond termination of this Agreement remain in effect until fulfilled, and apply to both parties' respective successors and assignees.

4. Charges

Charges are based on Authorized Use obtained, which is specified in the PoE. IBM does not give credits or refunds for charges already due or paid, except as specified elsewhere in this Agreement.

If Licensee wishes to increase its Authorized Use, Licensee must notify IBM or an authorized IBM reseller in advance and pay any applicable charges.

5. Taxes

If any authority imposes on the Program a duty, tax, levy, or fee, excluding those based on IBM's net income, then Licensee agrees to pay that amount, as specified in an invoice, or supply exemption documentation. Licensee is responsible for any personal property taxes for the Program from the date that Licensee obtains it. If any authority imposes a customs duty, tax, levy, or fee for the import into or the export, transfer, access, or use of the Program outside the country in which the original Licensee was granted the license, then Licensee agrees that it is responsible for, and will pay, any amount imposed.

6. Money-back Guarantee

If Licensee is dissatisfied with the Program for any reason and is the original Licensee, Licensee may terminate the license and obtain a refund of the amount Licensee paid for the Program, provided that Licensee returns the Program and PoE to the party from whom Licensee obtained it within 30 days of the date the PoE was issued to Licensee. If the license is for a fixed term that is subject to renewal, then Licensee may obtain a refund only if the Program and its PoE are returned within the first 30 days of the initial term. If Licensee downloaded the Program, Licensee should contact the party from whom Licensee obtained it for instructions on how to obtain the refund.

7. Program Transfer

Licensee may transfer the Program and all of Licensee's license rights and obligations to another party only if that party agrees to the terms of this Agreement. If the license is terminated for any reason by either party, Licensee is prohibited from transferring the Program to another party. Licensee may not transfer a portion of 1) the Program or 2) the Program's Authorized Use. When Licensee transfers the Program, Licensee must also transfer a hard copy of this Agreement, including the LI and PoE. Immediately after the transfer, Licensee's license terminates.

8. Warranty and Exclusions

8.1 Limited Warranty

IBM warrants that the Program, when used in its specified operating environment, will conform to its specifications. The Program's specifications, and specified operating environment information, can be found in documentation accompanying the Program (such as a read-me file) or other information published by IBM (such as an announcement letter). Licensee agrees that such documentation and other Program content may be supplied only in the English language, unless otherwise required by local law without the possibility of contractual waiver or limitation.

The warranty applies only to the unmodified portion of the Program. IBM does not warrant uninterrupted or error-free operation of the Program, or that IBM will correct all Program defects. Licensee is responsible for the results obtained from the use of the Program.

During the Warranty Period, IBM provides Licensee with access to IBM databases containing information on known Program defects, defect corrections, restrictions, and bypasses at no additional charge. Consult the IBM Software Support Handbook for further information at www.ibm.com/software/support.

If the Program does not function as warranted during the Warranty Period and the problem cannot be resolved with information available in the IBM databases, Licensee may return the Program and its PoE to the party (either IBM or its reseller) from whom Licensee obtained it and receive a refund of the amount Licensee paid. After returning the Program, Licensee's license terminates. If Licensee downloaded the Program, Licensee should contact the party from whom Licensee obtained it for instructions on how to obtain the refund.

8.2 Exclusions

THESE WARRANTIES ARE LICENSEE'S EXCLUSIVE WARRANTIES AND REPLACE ALL OTHER WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF MERCHANTABILITY, SATISFACTORY QUALITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE, AND ANY WARRANTY OR CONDITION OF NON-INFRINGEMENT. SOME STATES OR JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OF EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, SO THE ABOVE EXCLUSION MAY NOT APPLY TO LICENSEE. IN THAT EVENT, SUCH WARRANTIES ARE LIMITED IN DURATION TO THE WARRANTY PERIOD. NO WARRANTIES APPLY AFTER THAT PERIOD. SOME STATES OR JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW LIMITATIONS ON HOW LONG AN IMPLIED WARRANTY LASTS, SO THE ABOVE LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO LICENSEE.

THESE WARRANTIES GIVE LICENSEE SPECIFIC LEGAL RIGHTS. LICENSEE MAY ALSO HAVE OTHER RIGHTS THAT VARY FROM STATE TO STATE OR JURISDICTION TO JURISDICTION.

THE WARRANTIES IN THIS SECTION 8 (WARRANTY AND EXCLUSIONS) ARE PROVIDED SOLELY BY IBM. THE DISCLAIMERS IN THIS SUBSECTION 8.2 (EXCLUSIONS), HOWEVER, ALSO APPLY TO IBM'S SUPPLIERS OF THIRD PARTY CODE. THOSE SUPPLIERS PROVIDE SUCH CODE WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITION OF ANY KIND. THIS PARAGRAPH DOES NOT NULLIFY IBM'S WARRANTY OBLIGATIONS UNDER THIS AGREEMENT.

9. Licensee Data and Databases

To assist Licensee in isolating the cause of a problem with the Program, IBM may request that Licensee 1) allow IBM to remotely access Licensee's system or 2) send Licensee information or system data to IBM. However, IBM is not obligated to provide such assistance unless IBM and Licensee enter a separate written agreement under which IBM agrees to provide to Licensee that type of support, which is beyond IBM's warranty obligations in this Agreement. In any event, IBM uses information about errors and problems to improve its products and services, and assist with its provision of related support offerings. For these purposes, IBM may use IBM entities and subcontractors (including in one or more countries other than the one in which Licensee is located), and Licensee authorizes IBM to do so.

Licensee remains responsible for 1) any data and the content of any database Licensee makes available to IBM, 2) the selection and implementation of procedures and controls regarding access, security, encryption, use, and transmission of data (including any personally-identifiable data), and 3) backup and recovery of any database and any stored data. Licensee will not send or provide IBM access to any personally-identifiable information, whether in data or any other form, and will be responsible for reasonable costs and other amounts that IBM may incur relating to any such information mistakenly provided to IBM or the loss or disclosure of such information by IBM, including those arising out of any third party claims.

10. Limitation of Liability

The limitations and exclusions in this Section 10 (Limitation of Liability) apply to the full extent they are not prohibited by applicable law without the possibility of contractual waiver.

10.1 Items for Which IBM May Be Liable

Circumstances may arise where, because of a default on IBM's part or other liability, Licensee is entitled to recover damages from IBM. Regardless of the basis on which Licensee is entitled to claim damages from IBM (including fundamental breach, negligence, misrepresentation, or other contract or tort claim), IBM's entire liability for all claims in the aggregate arising from or related to each Program or otherwise arising under this Agreement will not exceed the amount of any 1) damages for bodily injury (including death) and damage to real property and tangible personal property and 2) other actual direct damages up to the charges (if the Program is subject to fixed term charges, up to twelve months' charges) Licensee paid for the Program that is the subject of the claim.

This limit also applies to any of IBM's Program developers and suppliers. It is the maximum for which IBM and its Program developers and suppliers are collectively responsible.

10.2 Items for Which IBM Is Not Liable

UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES IS IBM, ITS PROGRAM DEVELOPERS OR SUPPLIERS LIABLE FOR ANY OF THE FOLLOWING, EVEN IF INFORMED OF THEIR POSSIBILITY:

a. LOSS OF, OR DAMAGE TO, DATA;

b. SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, EXEMPLARY, OR INDIRECT DAMAGES, OR FOR ANY ECONOMIC CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES; OR

c. LOST PROFITS, BUSINESS, REVENUE, GOODWILL, OR ANTICIPATED SAVINGS.

11. Compliance Verification

For purposes of this Section 11 (Compliance Verification), "IPLA Program Terms" means 1) this Agreement and applicable amendments and transaction documents provided by IBM, and 2) IBM software policies that may be found at the IBM Software Policy website (www.ibm.com/softwarepolicies), including but not limited to those policies concerning backup, sub-capacity pricing, and migration.

The rights and obligations set forth in this Section 11 remain in effect during the period the Program is licensed to Licensee, and for two years thereafter.

11.1 Verification Process

Licensee agrees to create, retain, and provide to IBM and its auditors accurate written records, system tool outputs, and other system information sufficient to provide auditable verification that Licensee's use of all Programs is in compliance with the IPLA Program Terms, including, without limitation, all of IBM's applicable licensing and pricing qualification terms. Licensee is responsible for 1) ensuring that it does not exceed its Authorized Use, and 2) remaining in compliance with IPLA Program Terms.

Upon reasonable notice, IBM may verify Licensee's compliance with IPLA Program Terms at all sites and for all environments in which Licensee uses (for any purpose) Programs subject to IPLA Program Terms. Such verification will be conducted in a manner that minimizes disruption to Licensee's business, and may be conducted on Licensee's premises, during normal business hours. IBM may use an independent auditor to assist with such verification, provided IBM has a written confidentiality agreement in place with such auditor.

11.2 Resolution

IBM will notify Licensee in writing if any such verification indicates that Licensee has used any Program in excess of its Authorized Use or is otherwise not in compliance with the IPLA Program Terms. Licensee agrees to promptly pay directly to IBM the charges that IBM specifies in an invoice for 1) any such excess use, 2) support for such excess use for the lesser of the duration of such excess use or two years, and 3) any additional charges and other liabilities determined as a result of such verification.

12. Third Party Notices

The Program may include third party code that IBM, not the third party, licenses to Licensee under this Agreement. Notices, if any, for the third party code ("Third Party Notices") are included for Licensee's information only. These notices can be found in the Program's NOTICES file(s). Information on how to obtain source code for certain third party code can be found in the Third Party Notices. If in the Third Party Notices IBM identifies third party code as "Modifiable Third Party Code," IBM authorizes Licensee to 1) modify the Modifiable Third Party Code and 2) reverse engineer the Program modules that directly interface with the Modifiable Third Party Code provided that it is only for the purpose of debugging Licensee's modifications to such third party code. IBM's service and support obligations, if any, apply only to the unmodified Program.

13. General

a. Nothing in this Agreement affects any statutory rights of consumers that cannot be waived or limited by contract.

b. For Programs IBM provides to Licensee in tangible form, IBM fulfills its shipping and delivery obligations upon the delivery of such Programs to the IBM-designated carrier, unless otherwise agreed to in writing by Licensee and IBM.

c. If any provision of this Agreement is held to be invalid or unenforceable, the remaining provisions of this Agreement remain in full force and effect.

d. Licensee agrees to comply with all applicable export and import laws and regulations, including U.S. embargo and sanctions regulations and prohibitions on export for certain end uses or to certain users.

e. Licensee authorizes International Business Machines Corporation and its subsidiaries (and their successors and assigns, contractors and IBM Business Partners) to store and use Licensee's business contact information wherever they do business, in connection with IBM products and services, or in furtherance of IBM's business relationship with Licensee.

f. Each party will allow the other reasonable opportunity to comply before it claims that the other has not met its obligations under this Agreement. The parties will attempt in good faith to resolve all disputes, disagreements, or claims between the parties relating to this Agreement.

g. Unless otherwise required by applicable law without the possibility of contractual waiver or limitation: 1) neither party will bring a legal action, regardless of form, for any claim arising out of or related to this Agreement more than two years after the cause of action arose; and 2) upon the expiration of such time limit, any such claim and all respective rights related to the claim lapse.

h. Neither Licensee nor IBM is responsible for failure to fulfill any obligations due to causes beyond its control.

i. No right or cause of action for any third party is created by this Agreement, nor is IBM responsible for any third party claims against Licensee, except as permitted in Subsection 10.1 (Items for Which IBM May Be Liable) above for bodily injury (including death) or damage to real or tangible personal property for which IBM is legally liable to that third party.

j. In entering into this Agreement, neither party is relying on any representation not specified in this Agreement, including but not limited to any representation concerning: 1) the performance or function of the Program, other than as expressly warranted in Section 8 (Warranty and Exclusions) above; 2) the experiences or recommendations of other parties; or 3) any results or savings that Licensee may achieve.

k. IBM has signed agreements with certain organizations (called "IBM Business Partners") to promote, market, and support certain Programs. IBM Business Partners remain independent and separate from IBM. IBM is not responsible for the actions or statements of IBM Business Partners or obligations they have to Licensee.

l. The license and intellectual property indemnification terms of Licensee's other agreements with IBM (such as the IBM Customer Agreement) do not apply to Program licenses granted under this Agreement.

14. Geographic Scope and Governing Law

14.1 Governing Law

Both parties agree to the application of the laws of the country in which Licensee obtained the Program license to govern, interpret, and enforce all of Licensee's and IBM's respective rights, duties, and obligations arising from, or relating in any manner to, the subject matter of this Agreement, without regard to conflict of law principles.

The United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods does not apply.

14.2 Jurisdiction

All rights, duties, and obligations are subject to the courts of the country in which Licensee obtained the Program license.

Part 2 - Country-unique Terms

For licenses granted in the countries specified below, the following terms replace or modify the referenced terms in Part 1. All terms in Part 1 that are not changed by these amendments remain unchanged and in effect. This Part 2 is organized as follows:

* Multiple country amendments to Part 1, Section 14 (Governing Law and Jurisdiction);

* Americas country amendments to other Agreement terms;

* Asia Pacific country amendments to other Agreement terms; and

* Europe, Middle East, and Africa country amendments to other Agreement terms.

Multiple country amendments to Part 1, Section 14 (Governing Law and Jurisdiction)

14.1 Governing Law

The phrase "the laws of the country in which Licensee obtained the Program license" in the first paragraph of 14.1 Governing Law is replaced by the following phrases in the countries below:

AMERICAS

(1) In Canada: the laws in the Province of Ontario;

(2) in Mexico: the federal laws of the Republic of Mexico;

(3) in the United States, Anguilla, Antigua/Barbuda, Aruba, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Maarten, and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines: the laws of the State of New York, United States;

(4) in Venezuela: the laws of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela;

ASIA PACIFIC

(5) in Cambodia and Laos: the laws of the State of New York, United States;

(6) in Australia: the laws of the State or Territory in which the transaction is performed;

(7) in Hong Kong SAR and Macau SAR: the laws of Hong Kong Special Administrative Region ("SAR");

(8) in Taiwan: the laws of Taiwan;

EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST, AND AFRICA

(9) in Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Georgia, Hungary, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Montenegro, Poland, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Slovakia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan: the laws of Austria;

(10) in Algeria, Andorra, Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo Republic, Djibouti, Democratic Republic of Congo, Equatorial Guinea, French Guiana, French Polynesia, Gabon, Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Ivory Coast, Lebanon, Madagascar, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mayotte, Morocco, New Caledonia, Niger, Reunion, Senegal, Seychelles, Togo, Tunisia, Vanuatu, and Wallis and Futuna: the laws of France;

(11) in Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania: the laws of Finland;

(12) in Angola, Bahrain, Botswana, Burundi, Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Ghana, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Liberia, Malawi, Malta, Mozambique, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Tanzania, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom, West Bank/Gaza, Yemen, Zambia, and Zimbabwe: the laws of England; and

(13) in South Africa, Namibia, Lesotho, and Swaziland: the laws of the Republic of South Africa.

14.2 Jurisdiction

The following paragraph pertains to jurisdiction and replaces Subsection 14.2 (Jurisdiction) as it applies for those countries identified below:

All rights, duties, and obligations are subject to the courts of the country in which Licensee obtained the Program license except that in the countries identified below all disputes arising out of or related to this Agreement, including summary proceedings, will be brought before and subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the following courts of competent jurisdiction:

AMERICAS

(1) In Argentina: the Ordinary Commercial Court of the city of Buenos Aires;

(2) in Brazil: the court of Rio de Janeiro, RJ;

(3) in Chile: the Civil Courts of Justice of Santiago;

(4) in Ecuador: the civil judges of Quito for executory or summary proceedings (as applicable);

(5) in Mexico: the courts located in Mexico City, Federal District;

(6) in Peru: the judges and tribunals of the judicial district of Lima, Cercado;

(7) in Uruguay: the courts of the city of Montevideo;

(8) in Venezuela: the courts of the metropolitan area of the city of Caracas;

EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST, AND AFRICA

(9) in Austria: the court of law in Vienna, Austria (Inner-City);

(10) in Algeria, Andorra, Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo Republic, Djibouti, Democratic Republic of Congo, Equatorial Guinea, France, French Guiana, French Polynesia, Gabon, Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Ivory Coast, Lebanon, Madagascar, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mayotte, Monaco, Morocco, New Caledonia, Niger, Reunion, Senegal, Seychelles, Togo, Tunisia, Vanuatu, and Wallis and Futuna: the Commercial Court of Paris;

(11) in Angola, Bahrain, Botswana, Burundi, Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Ghana, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Liberia, Malawi, Malta, Mozambique, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Tanzania, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom, West Bank/Gaza, Yemen, Zambia, and Zimbabwe: the English courts;

(12) in South Africa, Namibia, Lesotho, and Swaziland: the High Court in Johannesburg;

(13) in Greece: the competent court of Athens;

(14) in Israel: the courts of Tel Aviv-Jaffa;

(15) in Italy: the courts of Milan;

(16) in Portugal: the courts of Lisbon;

(17) in Spain: the courts of Madrid; and

(18) in Turkey: the Istanbul Central Courts and Execution Directorates of Istanbul, the Republic of Turkey.

14.3 Arbitration

The following paragraph is added as a new Subsection 14.3 (Arbitration) as it applies for those countries identified below. The provisions of this Subsection 14.3 prevail over those of Subsection 14.2 (Jurisdiction) to the extent permitted by the applicable governing law and rules of procedure:

ASIA PACIFIC

(1) In Cambodia, India, Laos, Philippines, and Vietnam:

Disputes arising out of or in connection with this Agreement will be finally settled by arbitration which will be held in Singapore in accordance with the Arbitration Rules of Singapore International Arbitration Center ("SIAC Rules") then in effect. The arbitration award will be final and binding for the parties without appeal and will be in writing and set forth the findings of fact and the conclusions of law.

The number of arbitrators will be three, with each side to the dispute being entitled to appoint one arbitrator. The two arbitrators appointed by the parties will appoint a third arbitrator who will act as chairman of the proceedings. Vacancies in the post of chairman will be filled by the president of the SIAC. Other vacancies will be filled by the respective nominating party. Proceedings will continue from the stage they were at when the vacancy occurred.

If one of the parties refuses or otherwise fails to appoint an arbitrator within 30 days of the date the other party appoints its, the first appointed arbitrator will be the sole arbitrator, provided that the arbitrator was validly and properly appointed.

All proceedings will be conducted, including all documents presented in such proceedings, in the English language. The English language version of this Agreement prevails over any other language version.

(2) In the People's Republic of China:

In case no settlement can be reached, the disputes will be submitted to China International Economic and Trade Arbitration Commission for arbitration according to the then effective rules of the said Arbitration Commission. The arbitration will take place in Beijing and be conducted in Chinese. The arbitration award will be final and binding on both parties. During the course of arbitration, this agreement will continue to be performed except for the part which the parties are disputing and which is undergoing arbitration.

(3) In Indonesia:

Each party will allow the other reasonable opportunity to comply before it claims that the other has not met its obligations under this Agreement. The parties will attempt in good faith to resolve all disputes, disagreements, or claims between the parties relating to this Agreement. Unless otherwise required by applicable law without the possibility of contractual waiver or limitation, i) neither party will bring a legal action, regardless of form, arising out of or related to this Agreement or any transaction under it more than two years after the cause of action arose; and ii) after such time limit, any legal action arising out of this Agreement or any transaction under it and all respective rights related to any such action lapse.

Disputes arising out of or in connection with this Agreement shall be finally settled by arbitration that shall be held in Jakarta, Indonesia in accordance with the rules of Board of the Indonesian National Board of Arbitration (Badan Arbitrase Nasional Indonesia or "BANI") then in effect. The arbitration award shall be final and binding for the parties without appeal and shall be in writing and set forth the findings of fact and the conclusions of law.

The number of arbitrators shall be three, with each side to the dispute being entitled to appoint one arbitrator. The two arbitrators appointed by the parties shall appoint a third arbitrator who shall act as chairman of the proceedings. Vacancies in the post of chairman shall be filled by the chairman of the BANI. Other vacancies shall be filled by the respective nominating party. Proceedings shall continue from the stage they were at when the vacancy occurred.

If one of the parties refuses or otherwise fails to appoint an arbitrator within 30 days of the date the other party appoints its, the first appointed arbitrator shall be the sole arbitrator, provided that the arbitrator was validly and properly appointed.

All proceedings shall be conducted, including all documents presented in such proceedings, in the English and/or Indonesian language.

EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST, AND AFRICA

(4) In Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Georgia, Hungary, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Montenegro, Poland, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Slovakia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan:

All disputes arising out of this Agreement or related to its violation, termination or nullity will be finally settled under the Rules of Arbitration and Conciliation of the International Arbitral Center of the Federal Economic Chamber in Vienna (Vienna Rules) by three arbitrators appointed in accordance with these rules. The arbitration will be held in Vienna, Austria, and the official language of the proceedings will be English. The decision of the arbitrators will be final and binding upon both parties. Therefore, pursuant to paragraph 598 (2) of the Austrian Code of Civil Procedure, the parties expressly waive the application of paragraph 595 (1) figure 7 of the Code. IBM may, however, institute proceedings in a competent court in the country of installation.

(5) In Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania:

All disputes arising in connection with this Agreement will be finally settled in arbitration that will be held in Helsinki, Finland in accordance with the arbitration laws of Finland then in effect. Each party will appoint one arbitrator. The arbitrators will then jointly appoint the chairman. If arbitrators cannot agree on the chairman, then the Central Chamber of Commerce in Helsinki will appoint the chairman.

AMERICAS COUNTRY AMENDMENTS

CANADA

10.1 Items for Which IBM May be Liable

The following replaces Item 1 in the first paragraph of this Subsection 10.1 (Items for Which IBM May be Liable):

1) damages for bodily injury (including death) and physical harm to real property and tangible personal property caused by IBM's negligence; and

13. General

The following replaces Item 13.d:

d. Licensee agrees to comply with all applicable export and import laws and regulations, including those of that apply to goods of United States origin and that prohibit or limit export for certain uses or to certain users.

The following replaces Item 13.i:

i. No right or cause of action for any third party is created by this Agreement or any transaction under it, nor is IBM responsible for any third party claims against Licensee except as permitted by the Limitation of Liability section above for bodily injury (including death) or physical harm to real or tangible personal property caused by IBM's negligence for which IBM is legally liable to that third party.

The following is added as Item 13.m:

m. For purposes of this Item 13.m, "Personal Data" refers to information relating to an identified or identifiable individual made available by one of the parties, its personnel or any other individual to the other in connection with this Agreement. The following provisions apply in the event that one party makes Personal Data available to the other:

(1) General

(a) Each party is responsible for complying with any obligations applying to it under applicable Canadian data privacy laws and regulations ("Laws").

(b) Neither party will request Personal Data beyond what is necessary to fulfill the purpose(s) for which it is requested. The purpose(s) for requesting Personal Data must be reasonable. Each party will agree in advance as to the type of Personal Data that is required to be made available.

(2) Security Safeguards

(a) Each party acknowledges that it is solely responsible for determining and communicating to the other the appropriate technological, physical and organizational security measures required to protect Personal Data.

(b) Each party will ensure that Personal Data is protected in accordance with the security safeguards communicated and agreed to by the other.

(c) Each party will ensure that any third party to whom Personal Data is transferred is bound by the applicable terms of this section.

(d) Additional or different services required to comply with the Laws will be deemed a request for new services.

(3) Use

Each party agrees that Personal Data will only be used, accessed, managed, transferred, disclosed to third parties or otherwise processed to fulfill the purpose(s) for which it was made available.

(4) Access Requests

(a) Each party agrees to reasonably cooperate with the other in connection with requests to access or amend Personal Data.

(b) Each party agrees to reimburse the other for any reasonable charges incurred in providing each other assistance.

(c) Each party agrees to amend Personal Data only upon receiving instructions to do so from the other party or its personnel.

(5) Retention

Each party will promptly return to the other or destroy all Personal Data that is no longer necessary to fulfill the purpose(s) for which it was made available, unless otherwise instructed by the other or its personnel or required by law.

(6) Public Bodies Who Are Subject to Public Sector Privacy Legislation

For Licensees who are public bodies subject to public sector privacy legislation, this Item 13.m applies only to Personal Data made available to Licensee in connection with this Agreement, and the obligations in this section apply only to Licensee, except that: 1) section (2)(a) applies only to IBM; 2) sections (1)(a) and (4)(a) apply to both parties; and 3) section (4)(b) and the last sentence in (1)(b) do not apply.

PERU

10. Limitation of Liability

The following is added to the end of this Section 10 (Limitation of Liability):

Except as expressly required by law without the possibility of contractual waiver, Licensee and IBM intend that the limitation of liability in this Limitation of Liability section applies to damages caused by all types of claims and causes of action. If any limitation on or exclusion from liability in this section is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unenforceable with respect to a particular claim or cause of action, the parties intend that it nonetheless apply to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law to all other claims and causes of action.

10.1 Items for Which IBM May be Liable

The following is added at the end of this Subsection 10.1:

In accordance with Article 1328 of the Peruvian Civil Code, the limitations and exclusions specified in this section will not apply to damages caused by IBM's willful misconduct ("dolo") or gross negligence ("culpa inexcusable").

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

5. Taxes

The following is added at the end of this Section 5 (Taxes)

For Programs delivered electronically in the United States for which Licensee claims a state sales and use tax exemption, Licensee agrees not to receive any tangible personal property (e.g., media and publications) associated with the electronic program.

Licensee agrees to be responsible for any sales and use tax liabilities that may arise as a result of Licensee's subsequent redistribution of Programs after delivery by IBM.

13. General

The following is added to Section 13 as Item 13.m:

U.S. Government Users Restricted Rights - Use, duplication or disclosure is restricted by the GSA IT Schedule 70 Contract with the IBM Corporation.

The following is added to Item 13.f:

Each party waives any right to a jury trial in any proceeding arising out of or related to this Agreement.

ASIA PACIFIC COUNTRY AMENDMENTS

AUSTRALIA

5. Taxes

The following sentences replace the first two sentences of Section 5 (Taxes):

If any government or authority imposes a duty, tax (other than income tax), levy, or fee, on this Agreement or on the Program itself, that is not otherwise provided for in the amount payable, Licensee agrees to pay it when IBM invoices Licensee. If the rate of GST changes, IBM may adjust the charge or other amount payable to take into account that change from the date the change becomes effective.

8.1 Limited Warranty

The following is added to Subsection 8.1 (Limited Warranty):

The warranties specified this Section are in addition to any rights Licensee may have under the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 or other legislation and are only limited to the extent permitted by the applicable legislation.

10.1 Items for Which IBM May be Liable

The following is added to Subsection 10.1 (Items for Which IBM May be Liable):

Where IBM is in breach of a condition or warranty implied by the Competition and Consumer Act 2010, IBM's liability is limited to the repair or replacement of the goods, or the supply of equivalent goods. Where that condition or warranty relates to right to sell, quiet possession or clear title, or the goods are of a kind ordinarily obtained for personal, domestic or household use or consumption, then none of the limitations in this paragraph apply.

HONG KONG SAR, MACAU SAR, AND TAIWAN

As applies to licenses obtained in Taiwan and the special administrative regions, phrases throughout this Agreement containing the word "country" (for example, "the country in which the original Licensee was granted the license" and "the country in which Licensee obtained the Program license") are replaced with the following:

(1) In Hong Kong SAR: "Hong Kong SAR"

(2) In Macau SAR: "Macau SAR" except in the Governing Law clause (Section 14.1)

(3) In Taiwan: "Taiwan."

INDIA

10.1 Items for Which IBM May be Liable

The following replaces the terms of Items 1 and 2 of the first paragraph:

1) liability for bodily injury (including death) or damage to real property and tangible personal property will be limited to that caused by IBM's negligence; and 2) as to any other actual damage arising in any situation involving nonperformance by IBM pursuant to, or in any way related to the subject of this Agreement, IBM's liability will be limited to the charge paid by Licensee for the individual Program that is the subject of the claim.

13. General

The following replaces the terms of Item 13.g:

If no suit or other legal action is brought, within three years after the cause of action arose, in respect of any claim that either party may have against the other, the rights of the concerned party in respect of such claim will be forfeited and the other party will stand released from its obligations in respect of such claim.

INDONESIA

3.3 Term and Termination

The following is added to the last paragraph:

Both parties waive the provision of article 1266 of the Indonesian Civil Code, to the extent the article provision requires such court decree for the termination of an agreement creating mutual obligations.

JAPAN

13. General

The following is inserted after Item 13.f:

Any doubts concerning this Agreement will be initially resolved between us in good faith and in accordance with the principle of mutual trust.

MALAYSIA

10.2 Items for Which IBM Is not Liable

The word "SPECIAL" in Item 10.2b is deleted.

NEW ZEALAND

8.1 Limited Warranty

The following is added:

The warranties specified in this Section are in addition to any rights Licensee may have under the Consumer Guarantees Act 1993 or other legislation which cannot be excluded or limited. The Consumer Guarantees Act 1993 will not apply in respect of any goods which IBM provides, if Licensee requires the goods for the purposes of a business as defined in that Act.

10. Limitation of Liability

The following is added:

Where Programs are not obtained for the purposes of a business as defined in the Consumer Guarantees Act 1993, the limitations in this Section are subject to the limitations in that Act.

PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

4. Charges

The following is added:

All banking charges incurred in the People's Republic of China will be borne by Licensee and those incurred outside the People's Republic of China will be borne by IBM.

PHILIPPINES

10.2 Items for Which IBM Is not Liable

The following replaces the terms of Item 10.2b:

b. special (including nominal and exemplary damages), moral, incidental, or indirect damages or for any economic consequential damages; or

SINGAPORE

10.2 Items for Which IBM Is not Liable

The words "SPECIAL" and "ECONOMIC" are deleted from Item 10.2b.

13. General

The following replaces the terms of Item 13.i:

Subject to the rights provided to IBM's suppliers and Program developers as provided in Section 10 above (Limitation of Liability), a person who is not a party to this Agreement will have no right under the Contracts (Right of Third Parties) Act to enforce any of its terms.

TAIWAN

8.1 Limited Warranty

The last paragraph is deleted.

10.1 Items for Which IBM May Be Liable

The following sentences are deleted:

This limit also applies to any of IBM's subcontractors and Program developers. It is the maximum for which IBM and its subcontractors and Program developers are collectively responsible.

EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST, AFRICA (EMEA) COUNTRY AMENDMENTS

EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES

8. Warranty and Exclusions

The following is added to Section 8 (Warranty and Exclusion):

In the European Union ("EU"), consumers have legal rights under applicable national legislation governing the sale of consumer goods. Such rights are not affected by the provisions set out in this Section 8 (Warranty and Exclusions). The territorial scope of the Limited Warranty is worldwide.

EU MEMBER STATES AND THE COUNTRIES IDENTIFIED BELOW

Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, Switzerland, Turkey, and any other European country that has enacted local data privacy or protection legislation similar to the EU model.

13. General

The following replaces Item 13.e:

(1) Definitions - For the purposes of this Item 13.e, the following additional definitions apply:

(a) Business Contact Information - business-related contact information disclosed by Licensee to IBM, including names, job titles, business addresses, telephone numbers and email addresses of Licensee's employees and contractors. For Austria, Italy and Switzerland, Business Contact Information also includes information about Licensee and its contractors as legal entities (for example, Licensee's revenue data and other transactional information)

(b) Business Contact Personnel - Licensee employees and contractors to whom the Business Contact Information relates.

(c) Data Protection Authority - the authority established by the Data Protection and Electronic Communications Legislation in the applicable country or, for non-EU countries, the authority responsible for supervising the protection of personal data in that country, or (for any of the foregoing) any duly appointed successor entity thereto.

(d) Data Protection & Electronic Communications Legislation - (i) the applicable local legislation and regulations in force implementing the requirements of EU Directive 95/46/EC (on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data) and of EU Directive 2002/58/EC (concerning the processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the electronic communications sector); or (ii) for non-EU countries, the legislation and/or regulations passed in the applicable country relating to the protection of personal data and the regulation of electronic communications involving personal data, including (for any of the foregoing) any statutory replacement or modification thereof.

(e) IBM Group - International Business Machines Corporation of Armonk, New York, USA, its subsidiaries, and their respective Business Partners and subcontractors.

(2) Licensee authorizes IBM:

(a) to process and use Business Contact Information within IBM Group in support of Licensee including the provision of support services, and for the purpose of furthering the business relationship between Licensee and IBM Group, including, without limitation, contacting Business Contact Personnel (by email or otherwise) and marketing IBM Group products and services (the "Specified Purpose"); and

(b) to disclose Business Contact Information to other members of IBM Group in pursuit of the Specified Purpose only.

(3) IBM agrees that all Business Contact Information will be processed in accordance with the Data Protection & Electronic Communications Legislation and will be used only for the Specified Purpose.

(4) To the extent required by the Data Protection & Electronic Communications Legislation, Licensee represents that (a) it has obtained (or will obtain) any consents from (and has issued (or will issue) any notices to) the Business Contact Personnel as are necessary in order to enable IBM Group to process and use the Business Contact Information for the Specified Purpose.

(5) Licensee authorizes IBM to transfer Business Contact Information outside the European Economic Area, provided that the transfer is made on contractual terms approved by the Data Protection Authority or the transfer is otherwise permitted under the Data Protection & Electronic Communications Legislation.

AUSTRIA

8.2 Exclusions

The following is deleted from the first paragraph:

MERCHANTABILITY, SATISFACTORY QUALITY

10. Limitation of Liability

The following is added:

The following limitations and exclusions of IBM's liability do not apply for damages caused by gross negligence or willful misconduct.

10.1 Items for Which IBM May Be Liable

The following replaces the first sentence in the first paragraph:

Circumstances may arise where, because of a default by IBM in the performance of its obligations under this Agreement or other liability, Licensee is entitled to recover damages from IBM.

In the second sentence of the first paragraph, delete entirely the parenthetical phrase:

"(including fundamental breach, negligence, misrepresentation, or other contract or tort claim)".

10.2 Items for Which IBM Is Not Liable

The following replaces Item 10.2b:

b. indirect damages or consequential damages; or

BELGIUM, FRANCE, ITALY, AND LUXEMBOURG

10. Limitation of Liability

The following replaces the terms of Section 10 (Limitation of Liability) in its entirety:

Except as otherwise provided by mandatory law:

10.1 Items for Which IBM May Be Liable

IBM's entire liability for all claims in the aggregate for any damages and losses that may arise as a consequence of the fulfillment of its obligations under or in connection with this Agreement or due to any other cause related to this Agreement is limited to the compensation of only those damages and losses proved and actually arising as an immediate and direct consequence of the non-fulfillment of such obligations (if IBM is at fault) or of such cause, for a maximum amount equal to the charges (if the Program is subject to fixed term charges, up to twelve months' charges) Licensee paid for the Program that has caused the damages.

The above limitation will not apply to damages for bodily injuries (including death) and damages to real property and tangible personal property for which IBM is legally liable.

10.2 Items for Which IBM Is Not Liable

UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES IS IBM OR ANY OF ITS PROGRAM DEVELOPERS LIABLE FOR ANY OF THE FOLLOWING, EVEN IF INFORMED OF THEIR POSSIBILITY: 1) LOSS OF, OR DAMAGE TO, DATA; 2) INCIDENTAL, EXEMPLARY OR INDIRECT DAMAGES, OR FOR ANY ECONOMIC CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES; AND / OR 3) LOST PROFITS, BUSINESS, REVENUE, GOODWILL, OR ANTICIPATED SAVINGS, EVEN IF THEY ARISE AS AN IMMEDIATE CONSEQUENCE OF THE EVENT THAT GENERATED THE DAMAGES.

10.3 Suppliers and Program Developers

The limitation and exclusion of liability herein agreed applies not only to the activities performed by IBM but also to the activities performed by its suppliers and Program developers, and represents the maximum amount for which IBM as well as its suppliers and Program developers are collectively responsible.

GERMANY

8.1 Limited Warranty

The following is inserted at the beginning of Section 8.1:

The Warranty Period is twelve months from the date of delivery of the Program to the original Licensee.

8.2 Exclusions

Section 8.2 is deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:

Section 8.1 defines IBM's entire warranty obligations to Licensee except as otherwise required by applicable statutory law.

10. Limitation of Liability

The following replaces the Limitation of Liability section in its entirety:

a. IBM will be liable without limit for 1) loss or damage caused by a breach of an express guarantee; 2) damages or losses resulting in bodily injury (including death); and 3) damages caused intentionally or by gross negligence.

b. In the event of loss, damage and frustrated expenditures caused by slight negligence or in breach of essential contractual obligations, IBM will be liable, regardless of the basis on which Licensee is entitled to claim damages from IBM (including fundamental breach, negligence, misrepresentation, or other contract or tort claim), per claim only up to the greater of 500,000 euro or the charges (if the Program is subject to fixed term charges, up to 12 months' charges) Licensee paid for the Program that caused the loss or damage. A number of defaults which together result in, or contribute to, substantially the same loss or damage will be treated as one default.

c. In the event of loss, damage and frustrated expenditures caused by slight negligence, IBM will not be liable for indirect or consequential damages, even if IBM was informed about the possibility of such loss or damage.

d. In case of delay on IBM's part: 1) IBM will pay to Licensee an amount not exceeding the loss or damage caused by IBM's delay and 2) IBM will be liable only in respect of the resulting damages that Licensee suffers, subject to the provisions of Items a and b above.

13. General

The following replaces the provisions of 13.g:

Any claims resulting from this Agreement are subject to a limitation period of three years, except as stated in Section 8.1 (Limited Warranty) of this Agreement.

The following replaces the provisions of 13.i:

No right or cause of action for any third party is created by this Agreement, nor is IBM responsible for any third party claims against Licensee, except (to the extent permitted in Section 10 (Limitation of Liability)) for: i) bodily injury (including death); or ii) damage to real or tangible personal property for which (in either case) IBM is legally liable to that third party.

IRELAND

8.2 Exclusions

The following paragraph is added:

Except as expressly provided in these terms and conditions, or Section 12 of the Sale of Goods Act 1893 as amended by the Sale of Goods and Supply of Services Act, 1980 (the "1980 Act"), all conditions or warranties (express or implied, statutory or otherwise) are hereby excluded including, without limitation, any warranties implied by the Sale of Goods Act 1893 as amended by the 1980 Act (including, for the avoidance of doubt, Section 39 of the 1980 Act).

IRELAND AND UNITED KINGDOM

2. Agreement Structure

The following sentence is added:

Nothing in this paragraph shall have the effect of excluding or limiting liability for fraud.

10.1 Items for Which IBM May Be Liable

The following replaces the first paragraph of the Subsection:

For the purposes of this section, a "Default" means any act, statement, omission or negligence on the part of IBM in connection with, or in relation to, the subject matter of an Agreement in respect of which IBM is legally liable to Licensee, whether in contract or in tort. A number of Defaults which together result in, or contribute to, substantially the same loss or damage will be treated as one Default.

Circumstances may arise where, because of a Default by IBM in the performance of its obligations under this Agreement or other liability, Licensee is entitled to recover damages from IBM. Regardless of the basis on which Licensee is entitled to claim damages from IBM and except as expressly required by law without the possibility of contractual waiver, IBM's entire liability for any one Default will not exceed the amount of any direct damages, to the extent actually suffered by Licensee as an immediate and direct consequence of the default, up to the greater of (1) 500,000 euro (or the equivalent in local currency) or (2) 125% of the charges (if the Program is subject to fixed term charges, up to 12 months' charges) for the Program that is the subject of the claim. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the amount of any damages for bodily injury (including death) and damage to real property and tangible personal property for which IBM is legally liable is not subject to such limitation.

10.2 Items for Which IBM is Not Liable

The following replaces Items 10.2b and 10.2c:

b. special, incidental, exemplary, or indirect damages or consequential damages; or

c. wasted management time or lost profits, business, revenue, goodwill, or anticipated savings.

Z125-3301-14 (07/2011)


